.TH A2SITEMGR 1 "2026-07-05" "a2tools 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
a2sitemgr \- opinionated Apache virtual\-host manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B a2sitemgr
.RB [ \-d " " \fIDOMAIN\fR]
.RB [ \-\-mode
.RB { domain | proxypass | swc }]
.RB [ \-p " " \fIPORT\fR]
.RB [ \-s | \-\-secured ]
.RB [ \-r " " \fIREGISTRAR\fR]
.RB [ \-\-non\-interactive ]
.RB [ \-\-set\-init\-dns ]
.RB [ \-\-set\-init\-dns\-override ]
.RB [ \-\-set\-init\-dns\-sync ]
.RB [ \-\-no\-dns ]
.RB [ \-v | \-\-verbose ]
.RB [ \-\-help ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBa2sitemgr\fR creates Apache2 virtual hosts using a small set of
opinionated, repeatable templates and obtains TLS certificates via
\fBcertbot\fR.
.PP
Three modes are supported:
.TP
.B domain
Standard vhost for a single base domain. Requests a wildcard certificate
for the base domain using the ACME DNS\-01 challenge via the configured
\fBfqdnmgr\fR hooks.
.TP
.B proxypass
Reverse\-proxied subdomain backed by the base domain's existing wildcard
certificate. Use \fB\-\-secured\fR when the upstream service speaks HTTPS.
.TP
.B swc
Subdomain wildcard. A single \fImail.*\fR vhost serves the same subdomain
across every base domain managed by \fBa2tools\fR, reusing the base
domains' existing certificates.
.PP
If a domain is owned by a registrar that \fBfqdnmgr\fR knows about,
\fBa2sitemgr\fR will verify ownership, set the required DNS records and
wait for propagation before invoking \fBcertbot\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-domain " " \fIDOMAIN\fR
Domain or subdomain to manage. Required.
.RB "For " "swc" " mode pass a wildcard such as " "mail.*" "."
.TP
.BR \-\-mode " " { \fBdomain\fR | \fBproxypass\fR | \fBswc\fR }
Vhost mode. Default: \fBdomain\fR.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-proxy\-port " " \fIPORT\fR
Local port to reverse proxy to (proxypass mode only).
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-secured
Upstream service is HTTPS (proxypass mode only).
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-registrar " " \fIREGISTRAR\fR
Registrar slug (e.g. \fBnamecheap.com\fR) used to verify ownership and
configure DNS records.
.TP
.BR \-\-non\-interactive
Do not prompt. Fail if required information is missing.
.TP
.BR \-\-set\-init\-dns
Set the initial DNS records required for HTTPS before certificate
issuance.
.TP
.BR \-\-set\-init\-dns\-override
Like \fB\-\-set\-init\-dns\fR, but overwrite existing records that
\fBa2sitemgr\fR previously set.
.TP
.BR \-\-set\-init\-dns\-sync
Block until DNS propagation is confirmed.
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-dns
Skip DNS setup (use only when the domain is already correctly delegated).
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Print progress on the controlling terminal.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print the embedded usage text and exit.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B >0
An error occurred (certbot failure, DNS propagation failure, missing
dependency, etc.). Details are logged to
\fB/var/log/a2tools/fqdnmgr.log\fR.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/a2tools/domain.conf
Per\-domain vhost parameters.
.TP
.I /etc/apache2/sites\-available/
Generated vhost configs.
.TP
.I /var/lib/a2tools/domains.db
SQLite database tracking the domains managed by \fBa2tools\fR.
.TP
.I /var/log/a2tools/
Operational logs.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR a2certrenew (1),
.BR a2wcrecalc (1),
.BR a2wcrecalc\-dms (1),
.BR fqdnmgr (1),
.BR fqdncredmgr (1),
.BR certbot (1),
.BR apache2ctl (8)
.PP
Project homepage:
.RI < https://github.com/amosbin/a2tools >
