.TH FQDNCREDMGR 1 "2026-07-05" "a2tools 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
fqdncredmgr \- manage registrar API credentials
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fqdncredmgr
.RB add " " \fIprovider\fR " " \fIusername\fR
.RB [ \-p " " { \fIkey\fR | \fB-\fR } ]
.B fqdncredmgr
.RB update " " \fIprovider\fR " " \fIusername\fR
.RB [ \-p " " { \fIkey\fR | \fB-\fR } ]
.B fqdncredmgr
.RB delete " " \fIprovider\fR " " \fIusername\fR
.B fqdncredmgr
.RB list
.RB [ \fIprovider\fR ]
.B fqdncredmgr
.RB show " " \fIprovider\fR " " \fIusername\fR
.B fqdncredmgr
.RB providers
.B fqdncredmgr
.RB { \-\-help " | " \-h }
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBfqdncredmgr\fR stores registrar API credentials in a root\-only
SQLite database at \fB/var/lib/a2tools/creds.db\fR (mode 0600). The
credentials are read directly by \fBfqdnmgr\fR(1) from that database
\- there is no daemon, no socket and no environment variable
intermediary.
.PP
Supplying the API key:
.IP
\fB\-p\fR \fIKEY\fR   use \fIKEY\fR (visible in the process list; discouraged)
.IP
\fB\-p\fR \fB\-\fR   read the key from stdin (recommended for scripting)
.IP
omitted   prompt interactively with masked input
(\fBsystemd\-ask\-password\fR if available, otherwise \fBread \-s\fR
from \fB/dev/tty\fR).
.PP
Passing the key as a bare command\-line argument is NOT supported: argv
is visible to every local user via \fBps\fR and lands in shell
history.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B add \fIprovider\fR \fIusername\fR
Add a new credential. Prompts for the API key, unless \fB\-p\fR is
given.
.TP
.B update \fIprovider\fR \fIusername\fR
Replace the API key for an existing credential.
.TP
.B delete \fIprovider\fR \fIusername\fR
Delete a credential.
.TP
.B list [\fIprovider\fR]
List stored credentials, optionally filtered by provider.
.TP
.B show \fIprovider\fR \fIusername\fR
Print the metadata of a credential (the key itself is never printed).
.TP
.B providers
List every provider that has a plugin installed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-p " " { \fIkey\fR | \fB\- }
API key source (see above).
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print the embedded usage text and exit.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/lib/a2tools/creds.db
SQLite database with provider credentials.
.TP
.I /usr/lib/a2tools/providers/ ,
.I /etc/a2tools/providers/
Provider plugin directories (shipped and local overrides).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fqdnmgr (1),
.BR a2sitemgr (1)
.PP
Project homepage:
.RI < https://github.com/amosbin/a2tools >
