.TH FQDNMGR 1 "2026-07-05" "a2tools 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
fqdnmgr \- provision domains: ownership checks, purchases and DNS records
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fqdnmgr
.RB [ \-\-help "] [" \-v | \-\-verbose ]
.RB { \fIcommand\fR " " [\fIargs\fR ...] }
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBfqdnmgr\fR interacts with domain registrars (Namecheap, Wedos, ...)
through a small plugin interface to check domain availability, purchase
domains, list domains on an account, and set DNS records. It also
implements the auth / cleanup hooks used by \fBcertbot\fR for ACME
DNS\-01 challenges.
.PP
Credentials are read from the root\-only SQLite database at
\fB/var/lib/a2tools/creds.db\fR (mode 0600) that \fBfqdncredmgr\fR(1)
manages. No daemon, no socket, no environment variables.
.PP
Available subcommands (use \fB\-\-help\fR for the full list):
.TP
.B availability
Print whether a domain is available for registration.
.TP
.B purchase
Buy a domain via the configured registrar.
.TP
.B list
List domains associated with a registrar account.
.TP
.B status
Print the status of a domain (expiry, nameservers, ...).
.TP
.B setInitDNSRecords
Set the initial DNS records (\fBA\fR, \fBAAAA\fR, mail MX/SPF/DKIM,
ACME \fB_txt_acme\-challenge\fR placeholder) for the listed domains.
With \fB\-r\fR, apply to every domain on the given registrar.
.TP
.B unset / set
Low\-level record manipulation. Use \fBsetInitDNSRecords\fR unless you
need fine\-grained control.
.PP
\fBsetInitDNSRecords\fR polls the configured nameservers and Google DNS
\fB8.8.8.8\fR for propagation using exponentially decaying checkpoints
capped at the historical average for that provider, with a 10 second
safety buffer. The check is always run before \fBcertbot\fR is invoked,
to avoid a certbot crash on missing DNS.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Print progress on the controlling terminal.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print the embedded usage text and exit.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B >0
The registrar API returned an error, propagation timed out, or a
required parameter was missing.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/lib/a2tools/creds.db
Provider credentials (read by the provider plugins).
.TP
.I /var/cache/a2tools/a2tools.cache
Propagation, whois and NS cache.
.TP
.I /var/log/a2tools/fqdnmgr.log
Request / response log and operational messages.
.TP
.I /etc/a2tools/providers/
Local provider plugin overrides.
.TP
.I /usr/lib/a2tools/providers/
Shipped provider plugins.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR a2sitemgr (1),
.BR a2certrenew (1),
.BR fqdncredmgr (1),
.BR certbot (1)
.PP
Project homepage:
.RI < https://github.com/amosbin/a2tools >
